Database management system and SQL

DBMS: It is a software which is used to create, delete, and manipulate database. 
      It has different types.
      RDBMS is one of its type, where R stands for relational.
      Relation means table. 
      Since data is stored in tables in it, that’s why it’s known as RDBMS. 
      For example: MySQL, Oracle, MYSQLServer, MSAccess.

Database: Collection of related tables.

Table: It is a collection of rows and columns. Data is stored in form of records in it, so we can say table is collection of related records.

Rows / Records / Tuple: Set of related values.
Cardinality: Total number of rows or records.

Columns / Fields / Attributes
Degree: Total number of columns in any table.

Domain of any column: It is a set of values from where only that column will take particular value.

Keys: Unique columns of a table are called keys. There are 4 types of keys:
  > Candidate keys: Set of all unique columns or keys in a table are called candidate keys.
  > Primary key: Column (or set of columns) which uniquely identifies a record. From the candidate keys, any one key can become primary key.
    Features of primary key:
    > There can only be one primary key in a table.
    > Primary key cannot have null value.
  > Alternate keys: From the candidate keys, one key is taken as primary key and rest keys are called as alternate keys.
  > Foreign key: A column which is primary key in one table, but a non-primary key in another table is known as foreign key of that table (in which it is non- primary). 
                 It is used to implement data security so that any or no record is deleted by mistake or updated. This is called as Referential Integrity. 
                 Foreign key column can have only those values which are present in corresponding primary key column. 
                 A table can have one primary key but multiple foreign keys.

SQL- Structured Query Language
SQL is a language which is used to communicate with any relational database. SQL commands are divided into three categories:
DDL ( Data Definition Language ) : These commands work on the structure of the table.
  > Create
  > Drop
  > Alter
DML ( Data Manipulation Language ) : These commands are used to manipulate record.
  > Insert
  > Delete
  > Update
  > Select
TCL ( Transaction Control Language )
  > Commit 
  > Rollback
  > Saveprint
